\input texinfo

@ifnottex
@paragraphindent 0
@end ifnottex
@titlepage
@title
@end titlepage

@node Top
@top This is a guide for the SmartCalc program from an Sfeta, School21 student.
This program is able to calculate mathematical expressions, draw a graph of a function, and there is also a loan calculator.

    Install and makefile

To install the program, use target: make install

If you need to install to another folder, type: make install INSTALL_ROOT=``your path''
If the installation path is not specified, the installation takes
place in the Build folder - in the root directory of this program.

To clean the src from temporary files from the program build, enter: make
clean

To archive the program, use target, the results will be in the
root folder(in ../Build or INSTALL_PATH): make dist

To uninstall the program,
use target: make uninstall

To create the program documentation, use
the target: make div The result in the form of an pdf file will be located
in folder installed app

To run the tests, use target: make test

To run app, go to Build/smartcalc/bin/ And run the smartcalc executable

    Calculator 

To enter an expression, you can press the virtual buttons of the
program, or use keyboard input.

Hotkeys are provided for some actions
(for example, entering functions or mod).

List of hotkeys:
Keys from 0 to 9 for entering numbers;

X key for x;

c key for cos;

C key for acos;

t key for tan;

T key for atan;

l key for ln;

L key for log;

Key ( for the opening parenthesis Key ) for the closing parenthesis;

The Circumflex key for exponentiation;

AC key to reset values;

+/- key to add a unary minus to a number;

The m key for the remainder of the division;

The / key for division * Key for multiplication;

The key is for subtraction + key for addition;

The key . to enter a floating point number;

Key = to calculate the expression;

G key or Draw graphic button to draw the graph


When pressing the number or function keys, the contents of the button
are added to the intermediate screen, where you can change the sign, add
a dot, open/close brackets. The input to the intermediate screen
continues until the operator or = is pressed.

If the operator is pressed, the operand from the intermediate screen is
added to the expression string, when you press the number or function
key, the operand input begins again, this happens before pressing =.

When entering an expression with x, you need to fill in the field for
the value of x, it is located to the left of the expression input line.

It is also possible to enter an expression into a string directly from
the keyboard, but it is necessary to independently monitor the
correctness of the expression, for example, close brackets, correctly
apply operators, when entering an incorrect expression there are checks,
but they are not ideal.

When you click on Draw graphic and the x value, the function graph will
be drawn, and you will switch to the graph window.

    Calculator  After clicking on
the graph rendering button (in the calculator tab), or clicking on the g
button, you switch to the graph tab, where the graph of the entered
expression is drawn. In the start and end number input forms, you can
set the rendering range from -1000000 to 1000000, but it's better not set
such large values - it may take a long time, or the program may hang, by
default the graph is drawn from -10 to 10, after entering the number,
you can press Enter to redraw with new values. The Clear button is used
to clear the chart, or you can use the ESC key to clear and go to the
calculator tab. To move around the coordinate field, you can use the
mouse - click and pull, to change the scale, use the mouse wheel scroll.

    2.0 Update!
The program was rewritten in C++ using the Model-View-Controller design pattern.
The logic code has been refactored and many bugs have been fixed.
Accelerated rendering of the graph, the ability to manually change the step was removed, but autoscale was added for large values.
The interface logic has been improved, some bugs have been fixed.

@bye

163 142 141 162 162 151 143 141 144 141 163